---
layout: post
category : general
tags : [release, dr-henry, v0.0.1]
---

## The first release

So what is in this first release?

Starting with a [Jekyll Bootstrap](http://jekyllbootstrap.com/) fork, theme includes were refactored and a per-fragment theme include mechanism was added. This lets themes load in layers and fall back on fragments down. I started here, as this project shared my goal to publish directly to the [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com) environment.

A core theme provides the guiding structure, and themes will override what they need to get the job done. Base themes build on that, providing popular framework items. Bootstrap 2 and 3, and Foundation 5 are included. On top of all these, themes you actually use, include "octo", a conversion of the [Octopress 2.0](http://octopress.org/) "classic" theme, "jekb", a conversion of Jekyll Bootstrap look as a simple header change with added CSS on top of the vanilla bootstrap3 base theme. Lastly, [OctoFound](http://octofound.annekjohnson.com/), a Foundation 5 theme for Octopress, was converted as the example for a theme build on top of the vanilla foundation5 theme.

Blogging works like any other Jekyll install really, no attempt at category structure has been made yet, just a blog, and a home page that emulates the first page of the blog archives for the first 10 posts (by default).

But via setting the right theme settings (which will be simplified soon), you can switch between any of the 3 main themes, and the 3 base themes. There's a little variation on how each presents, but for the most part offer a blog with a few index pages for looking around by tags, etc. 

There's a lot of rough edges, and it's still a moving target, but this stable release should be useable for basic blogging, and with some customization, maybe more.


